si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Cation ABC transporter, periplasmic cation-binding protein, PA2407 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Hypothetical MbtH-like protein, PA2412 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Hypothetical protein PvdX
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Hypothetical protein PvdY
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Hypothetical protein in pyoverdin gene cluster
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Hypothetical protein in pyoverdin gene cluster, PA2405 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Hypothetical protein in pyoverdin gene cluster, PA2406 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	L-ornithine 5-monooxygenase (EC 1.13.12.-), PvdA of pyoverdin biosynthesis
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Non-ribosomal peptide synthetase modules, pyoverdine
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Non-ribosomal peptide synthetase modules, pyoverdine??
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Outer membrane ferripyoverdine receptor
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Outer membrane ferripyoverdine receptor FpvA, TonB-dependent
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Outer membrane ferripyoverdine receptor FpvB, for Type I pyoverdine
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Outer membrane porin, coexpressed with pyoverdine biosynthesis regulon
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Outer membrane pyoverdine eflux protein
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pirin-related protein, coexpressed with pyoverdine biosynthesis regulon
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Probable hydrolase, coexpressed with pyoverdine biosynthesis regulon
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Probable thioesterase involved in non-ribosomal peptide biosynthesis, PA2411 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Putative dipeptidase, pyoverdin biosynthesis PvdM
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Putative iron-regulated membrane protein, PA2403 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Putative thiamine pyrophosphate-requiring enzyme, PA2404 homolog
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	PvdE, pyoverdine ABC export system, fused ATPase and permease components
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	PvdO, pyoverdine responsive serine/threonine kinase (predicted by OlgaV)
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdin biosynthesis protein PvdH, L-2,4-diaminobutyrate:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.76)
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdin biosynthesis protein PvdN, putative aminotransferase, class V
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine biosynthesis related protein PvdP
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine chromophore precursor synthetase PvdL
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine efflux carrier and ATP binding protein
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine sidechain non-ribosomal peptide synthetase PvdD
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine sidechain non-ribosomal peptide synthetase PvdI
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine sidechain non-ribosomal peptide synthetase PvdJ
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Pyoverdine synthetase PvdF, N5-hydroxyornithine formyltransferase
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Sigma factor PvdS, controling pyoverdin biosynthesis
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Sigma-70 factor FpvI (ECF subfamily), controling pyoverdin biosynthesis
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Thioesterase PvdG involved in non-ribosomal peptide biosynthesis
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	pyoverdine-specific efflux macA-like protein
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	ABC transporter in pyoverdin gene cluster, ATP-binding component
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	ABC transporter in pyoverdin gene cluster, periplasmic component
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	ABC transporter in pyoverdin gene cluster, permease component
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Acyl-homoserine lactone acylase PvdQ (EC 3.5.1.-), quorum-quenching
si_0473	Siderophore_Pyoverdine	Antisigma transmembrane sensor FpvR
