si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	ATPase component CbiO of energizing module of cobalt ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	ATPase component NikO of energizing module of nickel ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Additional component NikL of nickel ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Additional periplasmic component NikK of nickel ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Additional substrate-specific component CbiN of cobalt ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Additional substrate-specific component NikN of nickel ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	HoxN/HupN/NixA family cobalt transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	HoxN/HupN/NixA family nickel/cobalt transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	HupE-UreJ family cobalt transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	HupE-UreJ family metal transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nicel/Cobalt-specific TonB-dependent outer membrane receptor
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel ABC transporter, periplasmic nickel-binding protein NikA (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel ABC transporter, periplasmic nickel-binding protein nikA2 (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel responsive regulator NikR
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport ATP-binding protein NikD (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport ATP-binding protein NikE (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport ATP-binding protein nikD2 (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport ATP-binding protein nikE2 (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport system permease protein NikB (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport system permease protein NikC (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport system permease protein nikB2 (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transport system permease protein nikC2 (TC 3.A.1.5.3)
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Nickel transporter UreH
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Predicted cobalt ABC transporter periplasmic component
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Predicted cobalt transporter CbtA
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Predicted cobalt transporter CbtC
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Predicted cobalt transporter in Mycobacteria
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Predicted cobalt transporter in sulfate-reducing delta-proteobacteria
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Substrate-specific component CbiM of cobalt ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Substrate-specific component NikM of nickel ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Transmembrane component CbiQ of energizing module of cobalt ECF transporter
si_0529	Transport_of_Nickel_and_Cobalt	Transmembrane component NikQ of energizing module of nickel ECF transporter
