si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Enterochelin uptake ATP-binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Enterochelin uptake periplasmic binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Enterochelin uptake permease CeuB
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Enterochelin uptake permease CeuC
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric iron ABC transporter, iron-binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric iron ABC transporter, permease protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric receptor CfrA
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric siderophore transport system, biopolymer transport protein ExbB
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric siderophore transport system, biopolymer transport protein ExbD
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric siderophore transport system, periplasmic binding protein TonB
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferric uptake regulation protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferrous iron transport protein A, putative
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Ferrous iron transport protein B
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Haemin uptake system ATP-binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Haemin uptake system outer membrane receptor
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Haemin uptake system periplasmic haemin-binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Haemin uptake system permease protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Hemerythrin-like iron-binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Magnesium and cobalt transport protein CorA
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Nonheme iron-containing ferritin
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Periplasmic protein p19 involved in high-affinity Fe2+ transport
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Peroxide stress regulator
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Possible bacterioferritin
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Putative heme oxygenase
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Putative high-affinity iron permease
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Putative iron-uptake ABC transport system ATP-binding protein
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Putative lipoprotein of ferric iron transporter system
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Putative lipoprotein, similar to CjrA of Escherichia coli O164
si_0480	Campylobacter_Iron_Metabolism	Putative outer membrane siderophore receptor
