si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S11e (S17p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S13e (S15p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S14e (S11p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S15Ae (S8p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S15e (S19p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S16e (S9p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S17e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S18e (S13p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S19e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S20e (S10p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S23e (S12p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S24e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S25e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S26e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S27Ae
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S27e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S28e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S29e (S14p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S2e (S5p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S30e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S3Ae
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S3e (S3p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S4e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S5e (S7p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S6e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S8e
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein S9e (S4p)
si_0663	Ribosome_SSU_eukaryotic_and_archaeal	SSU ribosomal protein SAe (S2p)
