si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Transposase for insertion sequence-like element IS431mec
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Penicillin-binding protein PBP2a, methicillin resistance determinant MecA, transpeptidase
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Penicillin-binding protein 1A/1B (PBP1)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Penicillin binding protein PBP4
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	tRNA-dependent lipid II--glycine ligase (FmhB)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FemA, factor essential for methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FemB, factor involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FemC, factor involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FemD, factor involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	LytH protein involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	HmrA protein involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	HmrB protein involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	UDP-N-acetylmuramoylalanyl-D-glutamate--2,6-diaminopimelate ligase (EC 6.3.2.13)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	UDP-N-acetylmuramoylalanyl-D-glutamyl-2,6-diaminopimelate--D-alanyl-D-alanine ligase (EC 6.3.2.10)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Undecaprenyl-phosphate N-acetylglucosaminyl 1-phosphate transferase (EC 2.7.8.-)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FmtA protein involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FmtB (Mrp) protein involved in methicillin resistance and cell wall biosynthesis
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FmtC (MrpF) protein involved in methicillin resistance
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FmhA protein of FemAB family
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	FmhC protein of FemAB family
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	D-alanine--poly(phosphoribitol) ligase subunit 1 (EC 6.1.1.13)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	D-alanyl transfer protein DltB
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	D-alanine--poly(phosphoribitol) ligase subunit 2 (EC 6.1.1.13)
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Poly(glycerophosphate chain) D-alanine transfer protein DltD
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	RNA polymerase sigma factor SigB
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Methicillin resistance regulatory sensor-transducer MecR1
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Methicillin resistance regulatory sensor-transducer MecR1, truncated
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Methicillin resistance repressor MecI
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Beta-lactamase regulatory sensor-transducer BlaR1
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	Beta-lactamase repressor BlaI
si_0935	Methicillin_resistance_in_Staphylococci	HTH domain protein SA1665, binds to mecA promoter region
