si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Chlorophyllase (EC 3.1.1.14)
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, slr1827 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Phospholipase/carboxylesterase family protein, sll1284 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, slr1235 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, slr1917 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, slr1916 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Hydrolase alpha/beta fold family, slr0264 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Lipase (EC 3.1.1.3) family protein, sll1969 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, sll1129 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Hypothetical protein, slr1506/slr1944 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, tll2163 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, sll0553 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Menaquinone biosynthesis related protein, putative DHNA-CoA thioesterase
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Possible alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily, ct0524 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Esterase/lipase/thioesterase, slr0421 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	prolyl oligopeptidase family protein
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Serine peptidase (Alpha/beta hydrolase superfamily) fused to N- terminal uncharacterized domain specific to cyanobacteria
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Esterase/lipase/thioesterase family, pmt2269 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	hypothetical protein slr1932
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Similar to non-heme chloroperoxidase
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Similar to non-heme chloroperoxidase, sll5080 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Esterase/lipase, sll0644 homolog
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Esterase D (EC 3.1.1.1)
si_0569	Synechocystis_experimental	Lysophospholipase L2 (EC 3.1.1.5)
