si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Alkyl hydroperoxide reductase subunit C-like protein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Catalase (EC 1.11.1.6)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	DNA binding protein starved cells-like peroxide resistance protein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Fe2+/Zn2+ uptake regulation proteins
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Ferric uptake regulation protein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Ferric uptake regulation protein FUR
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Ferroxidase (EC 1.16.3.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Fumarate and nitrate reduction regulatory protein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Heme oxygenase HemO, associated with heme uptake
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Hydrogen peroxide-inducible genes activator
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Iron-binding ferritin-like antioxidant protein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Iron-responsive regulator Irr
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Manganese superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Metallothionein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Nitrite-sensitive transcriptional repressor NsrR
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	NnrS protein involved in response to NO
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Non-specific DNA-binding protein Dps
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Organic hydroperoxide resistance protein
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Organic hydroperoxide resistance transcriptional regulator
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Paraquat-inducible protein A
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Paraquat-inducible protein B
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Peroxidase (EC 1.11.1.7)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Peroxidase/catalase HPI (EC 1.11.1.6)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Peroxide stress regulator
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Peroxide stress regulator PerR, FUR family
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Phytochrome, two-component sensor histidine kinase (EC 2.7.3.-)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Probable peroxiredoxin (EC 1.11.1.15)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Redox-sensitive transcriptional activator SoxR
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Redox-sensitive transcriptional regulator (AT-rich DNA-binding protein)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Regulatory protein SoxS
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Rubrerythrin
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Superoxide dismutase (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Superoxide dismutase [Cu-Zn] precursor (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Superoxide dismutase [Fe] (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Superoxide dismutase [Mn/Fe] (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Superoxide dismutase [Mn] (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Superoxide reductase (EC 1.15.1.2)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Thioredoxin peroxidase 1 (EC 1.6.4.-)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Transcriptional regulator, Crp/Fnr family
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Transcriptional regulator, FUR family
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	Zinc uptake regulation protein ZUR
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	bacteriophytochrome heme oxygenase BphO
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	superoxide dismutase [Fe-Zn] (EC 1.15.1.1)
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	transcriptional regulator, Crp/Fnr family
si_0864	Oxidative_stress	transcriptional regulator, Fur family
