si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	2-keto-4-pentenoate hydratase/2-oxohepta-3-ene-1,7-dioic acid hydratase (catechol pathway)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	2-oxo-hepta-3-ene-1,7-dioic acid hydratase (EC 4.2.-.-)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (PaaH) (EC 1.1.1.157)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	4-hydroxybenzoyl-CoA reductase, beta subunit (EC 1.3.99.20)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	4-hydroxybenzoyl-CoA reductase, gamma subunit (EC 1.3.99.20)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	4-oxalocrotonate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.77)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport related protein
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport, ATP binding protein
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport, ATPase component
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport, extracellular ligand-binding receptor
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport, inner membrane transport component
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport, inner-membrane translocator
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate transport, inner-membrane translocator precursor
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoate-CoA ligase (EC 6.2.1.25)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoyl-CoA oxygenase component A
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Benzoyl-CoA oxygenase component B
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Beta-ketoadipyl CoA thiolase (EC 2.3.1.9)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Hydroxybenzoyl-CoA reductase subunit
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase (EC 4.2.1.18)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	P-hydroxylaminobenzoate lyase
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Predicted 2-keto-4-pentenoate hydratase/2-oxohepta-3-ene-1,7-dioic acid hydratase
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Putative Acyl-CoA thiolase
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Regulatory protein of benzoate catabolism
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Shikimate kinase I (EC 2.7.1.71)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	Shikimate kinase II (EC 2.7.1.71)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	benzoate degradation ring-cleavage hydrolase
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	benzoyl-CoA-dihydrodiol lyase (BoxC)
si_0557	Benzoate_transport_and_degradation_cluster	hydroxybenzoate permease
