.. _s.data:

Reference data
**************

As explained in the :ref:`s.other` and described in some detail in
:ref:`s.reads`, further analysis of closely related sequences can
occur with reference alignments and tree-building.  Creation and
annotation of reference sequence alignments is a laborious process
that consumes a significant portion of effort at such specialized
efforts as the `HIV sequece database
<http://www.hiv.lanl.gov/content/sequence/NEWALIGN/align.html>`_ or
the `Ribosomal Database project
<http://rdp.cme.msu.edu/hierarchy/hb_intro.jsp>`_.  We are not
attempting to be comprehensive (for this, see `Pfam
<http://pfam.janelia.org/>`_ or `The Hemorrhagic Fever Viruses (HFV)
Database Project <http://hfv.lanl.gov>`_) or even particularly
accurate.

Instead, we aim to enable the user to build off of our efforts at
characterizing one important phylogenetic marker (RNA Polymerase) to
illustrate the techniques and enable others to replicate and
trouble-shoot our phylogenetic work in creating our reference tree.
Additionally, we provide reference alignments for a variety of other
problems, such as strain-ID of pathogens and distinguishing orthologs
from paralogs in ascribing functional roles to proteins such as
virulence factors, enzymes, or regulatory proteins.

Another advantage to the two-step process for prodcing phylogenetic or
functional assignments is that the most recent information can be used
in the latter step.  Because Sequedex uses a database of orthogenomic
signature peptides to identify reads for further analysis,
improvements in the reference database (Sequedex data module) affect
only the overall sensitivity, and not the resolution of placement.
Depending on the question being asked, the sensitivity may already be
quite high (> 90%).

These alignments can be used in two ways to characterize an unknown;
both require an alignment of metagenomic reads or assembled contigs to
the reference alignment.  For a relatively small number of aligned
reads or contigs, the tree can simply be re-calculated, and the
relative position of reference and sample can be compared.  For a
large number of aligned reads or contigs, :ref:`s.Pplacer` can be used
to visualize which leaves or internal branches provide the
most-appropriate placement of the reads.

.. _s.RNAP:

Phylogenetic placement of RNA Polymerase reads
==============================================

RNAaPol alignment files, including beta and beta prime subunits for
bacterial groups 1-5 of :ref:`s.Life2550`, beta, gamma, and beta prime
subunits of the cyanobacteria, and the B1 and B2 subunits of
eukaryotic RNA Pol II (care was taken to exclude RNA Pols I & III).
The files are in `Phylip format <xxxx>`, because that is what is
needed for :ref:`s.phyML`.  Sequence file formats can be converted
online at `the HIV database
<http://www.hiv.lanl.gov/content/sequence/FORMAT_CONVERSION/form.html>`_.

* Sequence alignments for :download:`Group 1 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.1>`, :download:`Group 2 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.2>`, :download:`Group 3 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.3>`, :download:`Group 4 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.4>`, :download:`Group 5 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.5>`, :download:`Group 6 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.6>`, :download:`Group 7 <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.7>`. 

Subsets of the above files generated trees such as this one:

.. figure:: images/Metazoa_fungi.png
   :width: 50%

   Maximum likelihood tree of the fungi and metazoa computed with
   PhyML from an amino acid alignment of the B1 and B2 genes of RNA
   Polymerase II.

.. _s.RNAP.nt:

Nucleotide Alignments for Strain Attribution
==============================================

By using nucleotide alignments and all available strains from NCBI's
completed and draft genomes instead of amino acid alignments and one
representative per species, it is possible to see considerable
structure in the various strains of different species, as well as
interspersing of strains from two different species.  The figure below
was made from near-neighbors of *E. coli*.

.. figure:: images/Ecoli_tree.png
   :width: 50%

   Maximum likelihood tree of near-neighbors of *E. coli* computed
   with PhyML from a nucleotide alignment of the beta and beta prime
   subunits of the RNA Polymerase genes.

The sequence alignments to make this type of tree are available for
:download:`E.coli <dl/RNAP_alignments/data.Ecoli.RNAP.nt>`.

