.. _s.profiles:

Initial analysis with Sequedex: Phylogenetic and functional profiles
********************************************************************

As described in :ref:`s.other`, Sequedex can be applied to a wide
variety of problems.  While it is possible that a cursory examination
of Sequedex output will be sufficient to address the user's question
to the appropriate level of confidence, we expect most Sequedex users
will need to combine their Sequedex analysis with other techniques and
software packages.  We provide examples of a variety of these
analyses, including:

* the direct examination of phylogenetic or functional profiles with
  :program: `Excel`, described in this chapter.

* the visualization and characterization of these profiles, described
  in :ref:`s.Sequestat`

* the analysis of the individual reads retrieved, described in
  :ref:`s.reads`, and

* the multi-sample comparisons, described in :ref:`s.comparison`.

In these chapters, we will draw upon software tools and techniques
that the user may not be familiar with or may not have installed on
their system.  To help these users, we provide :ref:`s.software`.

It is assumed at this point that the user is comfortable running
Sequescan and can obtain multiple output files for comparison.  Please
refer to the previous two chapters for installation,
platform-dependent instructions on running Sequescan with both the GUI
and the command line, and instructions on obtaining a license.

The ability of Sequedex to profile bacterial communities with
metagenomic data leads naturally to the question of how a user's
microbial community compares to previously sequenced microbial
communities.  In this chapter, we lead the user through the process of
computing phylogenetic profiles and comparing them to publically
available datasets. In additional to phylogenetic information, the
sequences obtained in a shotgun metagenomics dataset can be used to
obtain functional profiles of genes in a microbial community, identify
the presence of particular genes of interest, or even determine which
proteins are the most important determinants of classification within
a set of microbial communities.  In this chapter, we we lead the user
through the process of computing functional profiles.

A note of caution is warranted here.  In this and the next section we
present phylogenetic and functional profiles, as well as analysis of
these profiles across an extraordinary range of microbial communities
with samples prepared by different researchers with a variety of
purposes, sequenced by different methods with different read-lengths.
We have primarily relied on publically available datasets with
associated publications, although a few examples of unpublished work
with experimental collaborators is also included.  Our purpose in this
user's manual is to provide illustrative examples of how phylogenetic
and functional profiles can be visualized and analyzed for both
self-consistency and biological insights, and provide analysis of a
reference collection of data to which the user can compare his or her
own data.  The job of cross-checking these insights with further
experimentation analysis is distinct and belongs in the peer-reviewed
literature.  Our intent here is to put this analysis tool into the
hands of the people best-suited to perform these cross-checks - those
who decide which samples will be prepared and know what biological
phenomonena are expected.

.. _s.acquire:

Acquiring data files
============================

Sequedex at present requires input sequence data files be in fasta,
fastq, or gzipped fasta or fastq data format.  Sequencing platforms
typically output sequences in a format with quality scores, such as
fastq, which can be used as input to assemblers.  Because possibility
space of 10-mers of amino acids is so much larger than the number of
signatures, Sequedex is relatively insensitive to sequencing errors
and the quality scores are ignored, and the fasta file format is
suitable.  If the user's data is in another format, the it must be
changed into fasta or fastq format.  While preprocessing of reads to
remove duplicates is valuable, and minimal quality score filtering is
probably useful, assembling the data into contigs before profiling the
community is probably unhelpful, as it makes the profiles dependent on
the depth of sequencing.

For users wishing to compare their data to others, metagenomics data
can be acquired from several sources, including the Sequence Read
Archive at NCBI, where the production phase of the human microbiome
project can be found with the project number, SRP002163 and the study
number SRP002163.  Individual data sets can be downloaded from their
ftp site with a web browser (or using wget) at
ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/sra-instant/reads/ByRun/sra/SRR/SRR059/SRR059366/SRR059366.sra.
Metadata about data sets, such as it is, can be obtained with the Run
Browser at the Sequence Read Archive,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Traces/sra/?view=run_browser/.  The human
microbiome data is probably easier to obtain from the Human Microbiome
Project website: `http://www.hmpdacc.org <http://www.hmpdacc.org/>`_.

Environmental metagenomics data sets can be found at NCBI with the
taxonid 410658.  A wide variety of individual projects can be found,
including samples from Pru Toh Daeng Peat Swamp, in Southern Thailand:
SRR023820, which can be downloaded from
ftp://ftp-trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/sra-instant/reads/ByStudy/sra/SRP/SRP001/SRP001114/SRR023820/SRR023820.sra.

In order to process data sets from the Sequence Read Archive, it is
necessary to extract fasta or fastq files from the .sra files obtained
above.  This can be done with the fastq-dump utility from the SRA
Toolkit, available for Linux, Mac, and Windows platforms at
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Traces/sra/sra.cgi?view=software.
Generation of a fastq or [fasta] file from the HMB dataset above
requires the command::
  
  fastq-dump [--fasta] SRR059366.sra

The Department of Energy's Joint Genome institute also maintains a
repository of metagenomic sequence data at their integrated
metagenomics (IM) site.

The CREO data from reference [1] can be downloaded in fasta format at http://img.jgi.doe.gov/cgi-bin/m/main.cgi?section=MetaDetail&downloadTaxonReadsFnaFile=1&taxon_oid=2029527002&noHeader=1, while additional metagenomics datasets are listed at http://img.jgi.doe.gov/cgi-bin/m/main.cgi?section=TaxonList&page=taxonListAlpha&domain=*Microbiome.

The Community Cyberinfrastructure for Advanced Microbial Ecology
Research and Analysis site (CAMERA) also maintains a repository of
metagenomics sequence data at
https://portal.camera.calit2.net/gridsphere/gridsphere, where we were
able to download data from the Global Ocean Survey [#f1]_.

The human microbiome project has generated several terabytes of data
from various locations on the bodies of a cohort of health people,
which is described in detail at http://http://www.hmpdacc.org/ and
shotgun metagenomics sets can be downloaded at their ftp site by, for
example, typing::

  wget ftp://public-ftp.hmpdacc.org/Illumina/anterior_nares/*.tar.bz2

Since these data files are compressed, tarred files, it is necessary
to untar and unzip the files (:command: `tar -jxf SRS011105.tar.bz2`) and merge
the paired-end files (:command: `cat SRS011105/*.fastq >
SRS011105.fastq`) and re-compress if desired (:command: `gzip
SRS011105.fastq`) before analyzing with Sequedex.

.. _s.rollups:

Phylogenetic rollups
===================================================

For users wanting to look at output data as rapidly as possible, we
supply three Excel spreadsheets with the collected results for
:download:`reference genomes chopped into 100 bp reads
<dl/Lsyn.xlsx>`, the :download:`human microbiome data
<dl/hmb.Life.xlsx>`, :download:`environmental metagenomes
<dl/env.Life.xlsx>`.  The reference genomes were obtained from the
completed and draft genomes at the NCBI ftp site, and are the same
genomes used in the Life2550 reference tree.

When comparing phylogenetic profiles of metagenomes, it is helpful to
produce a matrix of phylogenetic profiles, with the 2550 rows
corresponding to the nodes on the bacterial phylogeny, and each sample
assigned its own column, as well as a matrix of functional profiles,
with the 963 rows corresponding to the SEED (http://www.theseed.org)
functional categories.  This can be done in many ways, including
reading each output file into Excel and pasting the relevant columns
into one sheet, but a simple shell-script will also do the job. If the
user is comparing more than a handful of files, he or she will likely
want to write a program to both combine the data files together and
associate simplified labels with the longer, unique, labels assigned
to ensure proper sample tracking.  A simple script that does this is::

     cd hmb_data/output
     for i in SRR059330 SRR059331 SRR059338 SRR059339; do
     awk '{print $2}' < $i.fq.sqdx/who-Life2550-16GB.tsv > $i.j;
     awk '{print $2}' < $i.fq.sqdx/what-Life2550-16GBxseed_0911.m1.tsv > $i.k;
     done
     paste SRR059330.j SRR059331.j SRR059338.j SRR059339.j > ../hmb.stool.who
     paste SRR059330.k SRR059331.k SRR059338.k SRR059339.k > ../hmb.stool.what
     echo "stool1 stool2 stool3 stool4" > ../stool.lbl

This will combine the output files from four stool metagenomics data
sets into a matrix of counts for the who and what files.  The user
will, of course, need to supply directory and file names corresponding
to his particular analysis.  A spreadsheet may help to track the
relationships between the sample names and labels.  Note also that the
paste command by default places tab characters between columns, while
the echo command in the above script is placing spaces between labels.
For the 100 bp synthetic data made from each of the 2405 bacterial and
archeal genomes, with the results sorted phylogenetically and rolled
up to the phylum level, one obtains:

.. figure:: images/Lsyn_proll.png
   :width: 100%

When combined with the phylogenetic and data module size dependence of
the fraction of reads recoginzed, shown in :ref:`s.memory`, the user
can see that well-studied portions of the phylogeny, typically > 80 %
of the reads are classified, with > 90 % having reasonably specific
assignment.  The tax in these figures are in the same order as in
:ref:`s.Life2550`.  The tools to explore phylogenetic assignments will
be explored in much greater detail in the next chapters.

From these raw counts files, several types of profiles can easily be
computed: phylogenetic rollups, normalized phylogenetic profiles, and
normalized scalar products of the profiles.  Once again, these
quantities can be computed in many ways, but the gfortran
(http:/gcc.gnu.org/wiki/GFortran/) :download:`code
<dl/pnorm.Life.f90>` will suffice, and is described at the end of
:ref:`s.bash`.  In particular, examination of the :download:`tree
<dl/Life2550.phyloxml>` with archyoptrix (http://www.phylosoft.org) or
an :download:`output file <dl/what-Life2550-32GB.0xseed_0911.m1.tsv>`
reveals forty roll-up categories, defined in the notation of Fortran
90 :download:`here <dl/pnorm.Life.f90>`.  Only eight of the most
highly represented categories are shown in the human microbiome plot,
while the environmental metagenomes rollup, below, shows seventeen
categories, with only 'multiphyla' and 'root' left off.

A description of the project aims and primary analysis results can be
found in "A framework for human microbiome research" by the Human
Microbiome Consortium, in
http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v486/n7402/full/nature11209.html.

.. figure:: images/hmb_proll.png
   :width: 100%

   Phylogenetic profile of 547 human microbiome samples, computed
   using the Life2550-40GB data module and Sequedex, rolled up with
   the above-defined classifications.  The original plot and data can
   be found in the first panel of :download:`this Excel spreadsheet
   <dl/hmb.Life.xlsx>`.  For the most parts, the samples consist of
   pairs of replicates, and they are nearly indistinguishable from
   each other in this presentation.

The phylogenetic and functional profiles presented here can be
compared to Figure 2 of "Structure, function, and diversity of the
health human microbiome", also by the Human Microbiome Consortium, in
http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v486/n7402/full/nature11234.html.
Although the Human Microbiome Consortium ran their datasets through
BLASTX (see SRS016585 at http://www.hmpdacc.org/HMSCP/#data to verify
that stool sample run SRR059346 is indeed primarily *E. coli*), the
analysis in the HMB paper utilized a rapid-matching scheme, described
in Segata, et al., "Metagenomic microbial community profiling using
unique clade-specific marker genes" Nature Methods 9:811-814 (2012)
http://www.nature.com/nmeth/journal/v9/n8/full/nmeth.2066.html.

Although Segata, et al. used clade-specific genes to profile
metagenomics data, while we used phylogenetic signatures of the
majority of genes, numerous points of agreement between the analyses
are evident.  Note that we included a 'multiphyla' category in our
figure, which was not included in their reported results.
Specifically:

* For the stool samples, the ratio of bacteroidetes to clostridia
  varies from 60% clostridia to 95% bacteroidetes.

* For the tongue dosrum samples, firmicutes range from half to 10% of
  the identified species, with proteobacteria next most abundant,
  followed by bacteroidetes.

* For the buccal mucosa samples, firmicutes are even more prevalent,
  together with proteobacteria making up more than 90% of the assigned
  reads.

* For the supragingival plaque samples, roughly equal representation
  of firmicutes, actinobacteria, proteobacteria, and bacteroidetes
  occurs, with considerable variability in the relative abundance.

* For the anterior nares samples, actinobacteria makes up more than
  90% of the assigned reads in some samples, with the firmicutes
  providing the bulk of the balance.

* For the posterior fornix samples, most of the samples consist of
  firmicutes (clostridia + bacilli), although three of the analyzed by
  Sequedex consisted of equal parts bacteroidetes and actinobacteria,
  as did one in Figure 2 of the HMB paper.

* For the retroauricular crease samples, most of the samples are
  almost entirely actinobacteria, while alpha proteobacteria make up a
  significant minority of several of the samples.

We will return to further analysis of the HMB dataset after examining
a set of representative environmental microbiomes.


.. figure:: images/env_proll.png
   :width: 100%

   Phylogenetic profile of 249 environmental microbiome samples,
   computed using the Life2550-40GB data module and Sequedex, rolled
   up with the above-defined classifications.  The original plot and
   data can be found in the first panel of :download:`this Excel
   spreadsheet <dl/env.Life.xlsx>`.  The data are a compilation of 27
   distinct studies, with citations provided below, in order from left
   to right on the figure.  The data come primarily from the sequence
   read archive (indicated by the SRR number above the relevent
   columns in the spreadsheet.  The Global Ocean Survey results can be
   obtained from CAMERA (https://portal.camera.calit2.net/) and the
   FACE data from JGI/IMG (http://img.jgi.doe.gov/), as well as
   several data sets kindly provided before publication and release by
   `Cheryl Kuske
   <http://www.lanl.gov/orgs/b/b6/b6_highlight_2.shtml>`_ at Los
   Alamos National Laboratory.

A cursory examination of the environmental microbiome profiles reveals
distinctive and repeatable differences between studies.  We present
here references to the publications from each sample, and a brief
summary of salient details.

**peat** Kanokratana, et al., "Insights into the phylogeny and
metabolic potential of a primary tropical peat swamp forest microbial
community by metagenomic analysis" *Microb. Ecol.* **61**:518-528
(2011). (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21057783)

**Permafrost1** Yergeau E, Hogues H, Whyte LG, Greer CW. "The
functional potential of high Arctic permafrost revealed by metagenomic
sequencing, qPCR and microarray analyses." ISME J. 2010
Sep;4(9):1206-14. (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20393573)

**arctic** Yergeau E, Sanschagrin S, Beaumier D, Greer CW,
"Metagenomic Analysis of the Bioremediation of Diesel-Contaminated
Canadian High Arctic Soils. PLoS ONE **7**:e30058 (2012)
(http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0030058)

**Nyegga** Stokke R, Roalkvam I, Lanzen A, Haflidason H, Steen IH.,
"Integrated metagenomic and metaproteomic analyses of an
ANME-1-dominated community in marine cold seep sediments" Environ
Microbiol. 2012 May;14(5):1333-1346 (2012)
(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22404914).  Anaerobic
methanotrophic archaea (ANME) and sulfur metabolising bacteria
presumably include the delta proteobacteria visible in this sample.

**Harvard** FJ Stewart, AK Sharma, JA Bryant, JM Eppley, and EF DeLong
"Community transcriptomics reveals universal patterns of protein
sequence conservation in natural microbial communities" Genome Biology
**12**:R26
(2011). (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3129676/)

**permafrost2** Mackelprang R, Waldrop MP, DeAngelis KM, David MM,
Chavarria KL, Blazewicz SJ, Rubin EM, Jansson JK. "Metagenomic
analysis of a permafrost microbial community reveals a rapid response
to thaw." Nature. 2011 Nov
6;480(7377):368-71. (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22056985)

**gulf2** Widger, et al., "Longitudinal Metagenomic Analysis of the
Water and Soil from Gulf of Mexico Beaches Affected by the Deep Water
Horizon Oil Spill" Preceedings of Nature hdl:10101/npre.2011.5733.1
(http://precedings.nature.com/documents/5733/version/1).  The first
eight samples are from sand, the second eight are from water.

**face** Berendzen, et al, "Rapid phylogenetic and functional
classification of short genomic fragments with signature peptides" BMC
Research Notes **5**:460
(2012). (http://www.biomedcentral.com/1756-0500/5/460/abstract).  For
a description of the FACE sites, see
http://public.ornl.gov/face/results.shtml.

**utah** Kuske, CR, et al., Soil crusts in Utah field site.
manuscript in preparation.

**MOOM** Canfield, DE, et al., "A cryptic sulfur cycle in
oxygen-minimum-zone waters off the Chilean coast" Science **330**:1375
(2010).

**E. channel** Gilbert, JA, et al., "Metagenomes and
metatranscriptomes from the L4 long-term coastal monitoring station in
the Western English Channel" Standards in Genomic Sciences
**3**:183-193 (2010).  Only functional analysis is presented, with
SEED and MG-RAST.

**carbon** Mou, X., S. Sun, RA Edwards, RE Hodson, MA Moran "Bacterial
carbon processing by generalist species in the coastal ocean" Nature
**451**:708-711
(2008). (http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v451/n7179/abs/nature06513.html)

**acid** Gilbert JA, Thomas S, Cooley NA, Kulakova A, Field D, Booth
T, McGrath JW, Quinn JP, Joint I., "Potential for phosphonoacetate
utilization by marine bacteria in temperate coastal waters." Environ
Microbiol. **11**:111-125 (2009)
(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18783384)

**aloha** Martinez A, Tyson GW, Delong EF., "Widespread known and
novel phosphonate utilization pathways in marine bacteria revealed by
functional screening and metagenomic analyses." Environ
Microbiol. **12**:222-238 (2010)
(http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19788654)

**Ace Lake** Lauro, FM, et al., "An integrative study of a meromictic
lake exosystem in Antarctica" ISME J. **5**:879-895 (2011)
(http://www.nature.com/ismej/journal/v5/n5/abs/ismej2010185a.html)

**Organic Lake** Yau, S., et al. "Virophage control of antarctic algal
host–virus dynamics" PNAS, USA **108**:6163-6168
(2011). (http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2011/03/24/1018221108.full.pdf+html)
Primarily about viruses.

**stromatolites** Desnues C., et al., "Biodiversity and biogeography
of phages in modern stromatolites and thrombolites" Nature
**452**:340-345 (2008) (http://www.bio.sdsu.edu/faculty/kelley/31.pdf)

**fanning** Dinsdale, EA., et al., "Microbial ecology of four coral
atolls in the Northern Line Islands" PLoS One. **3**:e1584
(2008). (http://www.plosone.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pone.0001584)

**wastewater** Sanapareddy, N., et al., "Molecular Diversity of a
North Carolina Wastewater Treatment Plant as Revealed by
Pyrosequencing" Appl Environ
Microbiol. **75**:1688–1696. (2009). (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2655459/)

**ice** Simon, C., A. Wiezer, AW Strittmatter, R. Daniel,
"Phylogenetic Diversity and Metabolic Potential Revealed in a Glacier
Ice Metagenome" App. & Env. Microb. **75**:7519-7526
(2009). (http://aem.asm.org/content/75/23/7519.full). In agreement
that the major phyla are Betaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and
Actinobacteria.

**Lake Lanier** Oh, S., et al., "Metagenomic insights into the
evolution, function and complexity of the planktonic microbial
community of Lake Lanier, a temperate freshwater ecosystem" App. &
Env. Microbiol. doi: 10.1128
(2011). (http://aem.asm.org/content/early/2011/07/15/AEM.00107-11.short).

**Yellowstone** Inskeep, WP., "Metagenomes from High-Temperature
Chemotrophic Systems Reveal Geochemical Controls on Microbial
Community Structure and Function" PLoS ONE **5**:e9773
(2010). (http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0009773).
Not sure if this is the correct study.

**biogas** Jaenicke, S., et al. "Comparative and Joint Analysis of Two
Metagenomic Datasets from a Biogas Fermenter Obtained by
454-Pyrosequencing" PLoS one **6**:e4519 (2011)
(http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0014519)

**Leaf-cutter ants** Aylward FO, et al. "Metagenomic and metaproteomic
insights into bacterial communities in leaf-cutter ant fungus gardens"
ISME J. **6**:1688-701
(2012). (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22378535)

**kimchi** Jung JY, Lee SH, Kim JM, Park MS, Bae JW, Hahn Y, Madsen
EL, Jeon CO, "Metagenomic analysis of kimchi, a traditional Korean
fermented food" Appl Environ Microbiol. **77**:2264-74
(2011). (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21317261)

**rumen** Hess, M., et al., "Metagenomic discovery of
biomass-degrading genes and genomes from cow rumen"
Science. **331**:463-7
(2011). (http://www.sciencemag.org/content/331/6016/463.short)

**Global Ocean Survey** Rusch, DB, et al. "The *Sorcerer II* global
ocean sampling expedition: Northwest Atlantic through Eastern Tropical
Pacific" PLoS Biology **5**:e77(2007)
(http://www.plosbiology.org/article/info:doi/10.1371/journal.pbio.0050077).

.. _s.froll:

Functional rollups
==================

It is possible to produce functional profiles of the same samples used
above for comparing phylogenetic profiles.  Since we are using the
SEED functional classification scheme, it is also possible to
'roll-up' the functional profiles into 28 categories of gene function.
Inspection of the output file SRR059330.fasta.fun reveals the
following roll-up categories, defined in the notation of Fortran 90
:download:`here <dl/fnorm.f90>`.

.. figure:: images/hmb_Life_froll.png
   :width: 100%

   Functional profile of 547 human microbiome samples, computed using
   the Life2550 tree, the SEED classification, and Sequedex, rolled up
   with the above-defined classifications.  The functional profiles
   are provided above in an Excel spreadsheet.

The most striking observation about the functional profile across the
547 human microbiome samples is the consistent relative amplitude of
the different functions from the different body sites.  The two sample
types with the greatest variation in functional rollup profiles are
the posterior fornix and the anterior nares, consistent with Figure 2
of the Nature article referenced above (Nature **486**:207-214
(2012)).  It is possible that this variability is a consequence of
clonal populations of particular organisms that make up a significant
population of some of the samples skewing the results, but we have not
explored this idea further.  We observe in the environmental
functional profiles, below, that these relative amplitudes are also
broadly in agreement across diverse ecosystems.  We will return to
this discussion below, when we examine the functional profiles in
greater resolution.

.. figure:: images/env_Life_froll.png
   :width: 100%

   Functional profile of 249 environmental microbiome samples with the
   same color-scheme as the HMB functional profile above, computed
   using the Life2550 tree, the SEED classification, and Sequedex,
   rolled up with the above-defined classifications.  The functional
   profiles are provided above in an Excel spreadsheet.  As with the
   human microbiome samples, the consistent relative fraction of each
   functional rollup is quite striking, as is the enormous dispersions
   that arise from this uniformity.


.. figure:: images/face_fn.png
   :width: 70%

   Functional profile comparing soil metagenomics samples from five
   different FACE (http://public.ornl.gov/face/DUKE/duke_home.shtml)
   sites: MDE - a Maryland estuary
   (http://www.serc.si.edu/labs/co2/marsh.aspx), NCD - a deciduous in
   North Carolina (http://public.ornl.gov/face/DUKE/duke_home.shtml),
   TNO - a plantation in Tennessee
   (http://public.ornl.gov/face/ORNL/ornl_home.shtml), and a Crust
   (cyanobacterial soil crust) and cCreosote (root zone of creosote
   bush) sample in Nevada
   (http://public.ornl.gov/face/NDFF/ndff_home.shtml).

The twenty functional categories with more than 1000 counts in the TNO
sample are shown below with the subsystem number from the figure and
the three levels of annotation.  The top two levels are shortened to
help make the lowest level fit on the page.  Genes in each SEED
subsystem are found by clicking on the subsytem title in section
:ref:`s.seed`.  Many of the subsytems also have detailed explanations
available at http://www.theseed.org. ::

 si_0032 Amino Acids 	Glutamine, GLN, ASP, ASN; ammonia    Glutamine,_Glutamate,_Aspartate_and_Asparagine_Biosynthesis
 si_0042 Amino Acids 	Lysine, threonine, MET, Cys	     Methionine_Biosynthesis
 si_0078 Carbohydrates	Central carbohydrate metabolism	     Pyruvate_metabolism_II:_acetyl-CoA,_acetogenesis_from_pyruvate
 si_0122 Carbohydrates	One-carbon Metabolism		     Serine-glyoxylate_cycle
 si_0205 Cell Wall 	Unclassified cell wall and capsule   Peptidoglycan_Biosynthesis
 si_0279 Clustering	Unclassified clustering-based 	     Bacterial_Cell_Division
 si_0334 Clustering	Unclassified clustering-based 	     Conserved_gene_cluster_associated_with_Met-tRNA_formyltransferase
 si_0357 Cofactors 	Biotin	     		      	     Biotin_biosynthesis
 si_0415 DNA Meta.	DNA replication			     DNA-replication
 si_0448 Fatty Acids    Fatty acids			     Fatty_Acid_Biosynthesis_FASII
 si_0526 Membrane tra.	Unclassified membrane transport	     Ton_and_Tol_transport_systems
 si_0589 Nitrogen 	Unclassified nitrogen metabolism     Ammonia_assimilation
 si_0602 Nucleosides 	Purines	     	      		     Purine_conversions
 si_0640 Phosphorus 	Unclassified phosphorus metabolism   Phosphate_metabolism
 si_0654 Potassium 	Unclassified potassium metabolism    Potassium_homeostasis
 si_0660 Protein 	Protein biosynthesis		     Ribosome_LSU_bacterial
 si_0790 Regulation 	Unclassified regulation and cell sig cAMP_signaling_in_bacteria
 si_0812 Respiration	Electron donating reactions	     Respiratory_Complex_I
 si_0929 Virulence 	Resistance to antibiotics and toxic  Cobalt-zinc-cadmium_resistance
 si_0939 Virulence	Resistance to antibiotics and toxic  Multidrug_Resistance_Efflux_Pumps

Perhaps the most striking aspect of this plot is the sample-to-sample
consistency in the fraction of reads recruited to each functional
category.  To investigate further, in the next section, we examine the
functional profiles of the larger data sets for the 400 human
microbiome samples and 242 enviromental samples for individual SEED
subsystems, answering the question, 'What type of nitrogen metabolism
is present?' rather than 'Does the organism metabolise nitrogen?'.

.. _s.norm:

Normalized functional profiles
===================================================

Since most of the SEED subsystems cover metabolic and other functions
necessary for all organisms, the consistency across samples is more
reassuring than informative.  To convince ourselves that the
functional profiles are capable of distinguishing samples from
one-another, we normalize the functional counts (not including
'unassigned function' and compare two categories that are observed to
vary across environmental and human microbiome samples.

Normalization occured with Fortran 90 code; see :download:`F90 code
<dl/fnorm.f90>`.  One of the easiest functional categories to
interpret is photosynthesis across the environmental metagenomes.  By
comparison, none of the human microbiome samples contained more than
0.25% photosynthesis, and this was primarily composed of hits to
proteorhodopsin, rather than the photosystems.

.. figure:: images/Lsyn_nitrogen.png
   :width: 100%

   Fraction of the functionally assigned reads encoding for nitrogen subsystems across the 2415 synthetic reference metagenomes.  

.. figure:: images/env_photo.png
   :width: 100%

   Fraction of the functionally assigned reads encoding for phytosynthesis subsystems across the 249 environmental metagenomes.  

.. figure:: images/hmb_motility.png
   :width: 100%

   Fraction of the functionally assigned reads encoding for
   phytosynthesis subsystems across the 527 human microbiome
   metagenomes.

The set of output files can be viewed in Excel, and we supply two
Excel spreadsheets with the collected results for the human microbiome
data :download:`hmb.xlsx <dl/hmb.Life.xlsx>` and environmental
metagenomes :download:`env.Life.xlsx <dl/env.Life.xlsx>`.  The tab
'fnorm' in each spreadsheet contains the normalized functional counts.
It is straightforward to scroll through this spreadsheet graphing
various subsystems of interest, or sorting the functional categories
based on counts in particular samples or difference in counts across
various samples.  With some thought, it is also possible to sort based
on the signal-to-noise ratio with which the functional profiles
distinguish ecosystems, with the noise defined by replicate samples.

Thus, normalized functional profiles across the two reference data
sets enable a 'top-down' approach to understanding functional
classifications.  The user may want to import results from their own
metagenomics data sets into these spreadsheets to better understand
the significance of their own results.

