LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL SECURITY, LLC NON-EXCLUSIVE, NON-COMMERCIAL
SOFTWARE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR SEQUEDEX DEMO CODE

Los Alamos National Security, LLC (LANS) conducts research and
development at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) for the
U.S. Government under Contract No. DE-AC52-06NA25396 with the National
Nuclear Security Agency (NNSA) of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).

PLEASE READ THE TERMS OF THE FOLLOWING LICENSE AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY
DOWNLOADING OR INSTALLING THE SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTED WITH THIS AGREEMENT
(THE "SOFTWARE"), YOU ARE CONFIRMING YOUR ACCEPTANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE
AND AGREEING TO BECOME BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT
(THE "AGREEMENT"). IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT,
PLEASE DO NOT DOWNLOAD AND INSTALL THE SOFTWARE.  Software, as used
herein, means the sequescan binary portion of the sequedex software
package.

1. LICENSE GRANT

This Software is for non-commercial use only and your rights in the
Software are strictly limited to home, classroom, personal or
recreational use only by you and not for the benefit of third parties.

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, LANS grants you a
non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use the Software
distributed with this Agreement during the term of this Agreement on a
single designated computer. You may make one copy of the Software in
machine-readable form for backup purposes only. The backup copy must
include all copyright information contained on the original. Your
rights in the Software are limited to those expressly granted in this
Section 1. Your rights in the Software do not cover any republication
or distribution use without execution of a separate agreement with
LANS allowing you to do so. All documentation and all releases,
corrections, updates and enhancements provided hereunder shall be
considered part of the "Software". You may not use the Software or
files generated as a result of the use the Software, or any prints or
screen outputs generated with the Software in any commercial or
business environment or for any commercial or business purposes for
yourself or any third parties.

For the avoidance of doubt, this means that you may not obtain any
payment or financial benefit from the use of the Software, including,
without limitation, from commercializing any output, data, know-how,
inventions or discoveries arising out of or relating to the use of the
Software.  In addition, you may not provide any service to a third
party using the Software or any output therefrom.  You acknowledge, on
your behalf and on behalf of your assignees, licensees and
transferees, that any such financial benefit arising out of any
violation of the limitations provided for in this Paragraph 1 shall be
forfeited for the benefit of LANS, including, assignment of any
inventions arising out of or the subject of any unauthorized use.

This license does not grant patent rights if they exist in the
software.

THE SOFTWARE IS NOT INTENDED FOR USE IN THE OPERATION OF MEDICAL,
POWER, CHEMICAL, NOR NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION OR
COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, OR TRAFFIC CONTROL MACHINES OR ANY OTHER SUCH
ACTIVITY IN WHICH CASE THE FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE COULD LEAD TO
DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR SEVERE PHYSICAL OR ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE.

Your rights under this license will terminate automatically without
notice from LANS if you fail to comply with any term(s) of this
license.

2. LICENSE RESTRICTIONS 

You shall not copy, reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble,
translate, modify or make derivative works of the Software in whole or
in part. Further, you shall not rent, disclose, publish, sell, assign,
lease, sublicense, market, or transfer the Software or any part
thereof or use it in any manner not expressly authorized by this
Agreement. Any attempt to transfer any of the rights, duties or
obligations hereunder except as expressly provided for in this
Agreement is prohibited and will automatically terminate this
Agreement. The Software may contain patented or additional copyrighted
material of LANS, and you shall at all times take reasonable steps to
protect the confidentiality of such information.

You agree that you will not circumvent the time limitations built into
the code and that you will only run the code on systems where the
system clock is correct to within 24 hours.

You agree that you will not include this software or the data included
with it as part of entries for prizes or competitions.

You agree that you will provide a timely report of the use of
the Software, including any uses outside the scope of the license
provided for in Paragraph 1.  To the extent that the output of the
Software forms the basis for patent filing, your shall notify LANS
and, when published, provide a copy of any such patent filing.


3. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS 

(a) You are only licensing rights to use the Software for the purposes
described in Section 1. The Software, in whole and in part and all
copies thereof, are and will remain the sole and exclusive property of
LANS.

(b) You will not delete or in any manner alter the copyright,
trademark, or other proprietary rights notices of LANS and its
licensors, if any, appearing on or in the Software, file and screen
outputs and prints generated with the Software as delivered to you.

(c) LANS reserves it rights to claim ownership of any data, know-how,
output or inventions arising out of the use of the Software.

4. LIMITED WARRANTY AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY 

(a) This license and the Software are provided AS IS, WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR ANY OTHER
WARRANTY, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED. NEITHER LANS NOR THE U. S. GOVERNMENT
MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY THAT THE LICENSED SOFTWARE WILL
NOT INFRINGE ANY COPYRIGHT, PATENT OR OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHT. IN NO
EVENT WILL LANS OR THE U.S. GOVERNMENT BE LIABLE FOR ANY INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM EXERCISE OF THIS
LICENSE OR THE USE OF LICENSED SOFTWARE.

(b) LICENSEE agrees to indemnify LANS and the U.S. Government and
their officers, employees, assignees and agents, against all damages,
costs, and expenses, including attorneys' fees, arising from use of
Software by LICENSEE under this agreement. This indemnification
includes, but is not limited to, product liability.

(c) Third Party References and Material. References made either in the
Software may include reference to products, services, trademarks or
hyperlinks of third parties. No such reference(s) shall constitute or
imply an endorsement or recommendation by LANS. LANS makes no
guarantee or representation concerning the accuracy, currency, or
quality of the content displayed using the Software.

5. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS 

This software resulted from work developed under a U.S. Government
contract and is subject to the following license. The U.S. Government
is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a paid-up,
non-exclusive, irrevocable worldwide license to reproduce, prepare
derivative works, and perform publicly and display publicly the
Software.

6. TRANSFER 

LICENSEE agrees it shall not distribute or transfer the Software to
any other person or entity without prior written permission of LANS.

7. TERMINATION 

This demo contains a time limitation and will not run after June 30,
2013.  There are no guarantees that future demo versions with extended
time limitations will be produced.  This Agreement will expire on a
date five years from the date of installation of the Software.

8. GENERAL 

(a) Choice of Law. This agreement will be interpreted and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of New Mexico, excluding any
choice of law rules that would direct the application of the laws of
another jurisdiction.

(b) Assignment. This License Agreement is personal to the
Licensee. The Licensee may not assign or transfer this License
Agreement, including by merger, operation of law, or otherwise,
without the Licensor's prior written consent. This License Agreement
is binding upon and will inure to the benefit of the Licensor, its
successors and assigns.

(c) Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is found illegal
or unenforceable, it will be enforced to the maximum extent
permissible, and if not possible, severed, and the legality and
enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement will not be
affected

(d) Survival of Obligations. The provisions of Sections 3 (Proprietary
Rights), 4 (Limitation of Liability), 5 (Government Rights), and 8
(General) will survive termination of this Agreement.

(e) Entire Agreement. This license constitutes the entire agreement
between you and LANS with respect to the use of the Software.

9. COPYRIGHT NOTICE AND LICENSE FILES

This license file, the Sequedex copyright notice, and copies of the
license files of the packages on which Sequedex depends are included
with the package distribution in the licenses/ directory and must be
kept.  The names, license terms, and web sites of these dependencies
are:

commons-io            Apache 2.0      http://commons.apache.org/io
forester              LGPL-3	      http://code.google.com/p/forester
ini4j	              Apache 2.0      http://ini4j.sourceforge.net
jgoodies-common       BSD    	      http://www.jgoodies.com
jgoodies-forms        BSD             http://www.jgoodies.com
json-simple	      Apache 2.0      http://code.google.com/p/json-simple
License4j             License4j       http://www.smardec.com/products/license4j.html 
logback               EPL1.0/LGPL-2.1 http://logback.qos.ch
slf4j                 MIT             http://www.slf4j.org
sqlite-jdbc           Apache 2.0      http://code.google.com/p/sqlite-jdbc
